# enihsyou's dotfiles

<p align="center">
  <a href="README.md">English</a> •
  <a href="README.zh-CN.md">简体中文 (Simplified Chinese)</a>
</p>

This is a project for managing personal dotfiles, adapted for Linux, Container, macOS, iPad, and Windows systems used in the past and present. It also includes some personal experiences and magical operations.

## How to Use

> Prerequisites: Git and Python installed

`dotbot` makes everything simpler. I mean, just three commands.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/enihsyou/dotfiles.git ~/.dotfiles
cd ~/.dotfiles
./install
```

If on Windows, use the PowerShell script.

```powershell
git clone https://github.com/enihsyou/dotfiles.git ~/.dotfiles
cd ~\.dotfiles
powershell -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File install.ps1
```

## How to Develop

- Most configurations assume this project is located in the `~/.dotfiles` directory. Plain text configuration files may not access environment variables, so it’s best to follow this convention.
- Some files are generated by the `Taskfile.yml` and should not be manually edited.

## Background Information

I have some requirements for dotfiles management tools:

- Usable across different systems, mainly Linux, macOS, and Windows
- Quickly editable in an editor and shareable via Git, with a clear directory layout
- Not only managing files under HOME but also CLI, GUI programs, and some experience-based configurations
- Does not require DRY; readability is preferred over conciseness, and file content should be WYSIWYG

The initial version was forked from [holman/dotfiles][4]. After comparing [various][1] implementations in the open-source community, I currently use [dotbot][2] as the dotfiles management tool.

> I also learned about [chezmoi][3], but I dislike its directory layout.
> Its additional features like encryption, dynamic templates, and install hooks are unnecessary for me.
> Instead, features like templates, terminal completion, and file initialization add complexity due to its software design.
> Although it brings flexibility and reusability, it sacrifices readability and maintainability.

[1]: https://dotfiles.github.io/utilities/
[2]: https://github.com/anishathalye/dotbot
[3]: https://github.com/twpayne/chezmoi
[4]: https://github.com/holman/dotfiles

## About Git Submodules

You may notice that the `dotbot` directory in the repository is actually a Git submodule, which is a prerequisite for using this tool.
Here are some common commands for submodules, which are also included in the `install` script.

```shell
# Run when Git status indicates changes in submodules
git -C dotbot submodule sync --quiet --recursive
git submodule update --init --remote --recursive dotbot
```
